1. Introduction
1.1 Background: In this project we will be looking at the cities of Portland, Oregon, United States and Sacramento, California, United States, comparing and contrasting their neighborhoods, populations and local businesses and venues. Both cities are similar in several ways. They both share a similar population (Portland: 645,391, Sacramento: 500,920), they both have similar average income (Portland Individual: $35,459, Sacramento Individual: $31,574), and they are both located on the West Coast of the United States.

1.2 Problem: Although these two cities have a lot in common, we also want to find out what makes them unique. This could be population density within the individual neighborhoods of each city. Another question we could ask is how are the neighborhoods geographically spread out? There could also be differences in the number of shops/venues/attractions that exist in each city and what types of attractions they are. 

1.3 Interest: The information gathered in this project could be used by business executives, real estate agencies, travel magazines as well as Governement/State officials. Comparing these cities is important because they are a good example of what an average "big city" looks like in the United States. They are by no means the biggest in the US (Portland is ranked number 26 largest US city and Sacramento is ranked 36). I think this is important because these cities can be used as a better average for large cities than looking at the very most populated cities in a country. If a real estate business wants to expand, it could use this data to help decide which city has better prospects for their market. Or perhaps seeing venue and shop distribution within major cities could help city builders better understand how shops naturally crop up and what types of businesses and where.

2. Data
2.1 Data Description: In order to solve our problem at looking at how these two cities compare and contrast, we will need to see the locations and populations of each neighborhood in each city. For this project, 30 neighborhoods were chosen semi-randomly from each city to make the data more managable. Semi-randomly in this context meaning that downtown neighborhood locations were intentionally chosen, as well as a handful of "close to downtown" neighborhoods and then some "outside downtown" neighborhoods were included as well to help get an even spread of what the city is like. Outlier neighborhoods (either being too far away from downtown, or being too small population wise) were not included. The data for the venues/shops will help give further insight into the cities and how they are laid out. The data for venues has been gathered with Foursquare's API. This API will give us limited information about each venue within a specified radius of the neighborhood's estimated center. The results yielded from Foursquare's APi in this project came to a total of 1,241 venues between the two cities. 

2.2 Data Source: The data I will be looking at comes from as follows: https://www.portlandoregon.gov, https://www.cityofsacramento.org, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portland,_Oregon,https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacramento,_California, Foursquare.com and the GeoPy Package Nominatim API. The first 4 links help to describe the neighborhoods and populations of the cities. Foursquare and GeoPy were used to find venue and neighborhood coordinates, as well as venue names, categories, and popularity. 

3. Methodology
3.1 Exploratory Data Analysis: We will be looking at how the two cities compare and contrast by considering the neighborhoods that make up each city. This includes looking at the population within each neighborhood, comparing neighborhoods distances from downtown, comparing venue totals and averages. We will also try to predict neighborhoods that have a cafe of some type and find methods of grouping the neighborhoods based on proximity as well as venue category.

3.2 Inferential Statistical Testing: To help show the validity of our project, we will include some comparison tests and correlation tests. We will be doing some regression score tests to see how well our model can estimate the population of a neighborhood based on its distance from downtown. We will use Jaccard index and a confusion matrix to see how well our model predicts a neighborhood having a cafe based on venue count and population. We will also use the elbow method to determine a good value for k for k means clustering.

3.3 Machine Learnings: We will be using: linear regression, logistic regression, and k means clustering.  

4. Results
Many predictive models did not return very promising results when using the coefficient of determination and using Jaccard index. This was expected because the data used was not very large and the results sway heavily depending on how the train and test portions are split. Also the venue results from Foursquare seemed to range greatly depending on the neighborhood (with some neighborhoods only returning 1 venue result!) which may be due to a lack of information on their end. The k-means clustering of top visited venues also returned odd results. The elbow method was not very decisive for choosing an optimal k number and certain groups seemed to have members that did not belong.

5. Discussion Section
As I mentioned before, I noticed that train/test sets would vairy significantly when I reran tests. I also noticed a warning appear when trying to show 2 folium maps side by side in the same cell, but could never get rid of it. The data for Portland was usually a lot more reliable and easy to work with and produced more reasonable results than that of Sacramento. Sacramento's data seemed more random and returned less venues overall than Portland. I don't have many recommendations expect to keep working at the project and try not to take long breaks inbetween so as not to forget things along the way.

6. Conclusion
The data gathered in this report has expressed a few things about the two cities. For one, Portland's population seems to be more evenly distributed than Sacramento's. Portland has higher populated neighborhoods further from downtown rather than those that are very close. Sacramento's neighborhoods seemed to be split, North and South along the Sacramento River/American River. Portland also had more cafes and coffeshops as well as venues in general than Sacramento did. It would appear that the closer to downtown the neighborhood was, the more venues it had in general for both cities. Sacramento's data in general seemed to have more outliers than Portland's. However when grouping the cities into 4 clusters based on distance, Sacramento did have a more steady average population within each cluster, hovering around 5,000. Portland's 4 clusters were a bit more spread out, in this regard. Both cities produced similar k means clustering when it came to clustering the venues based on most popular venues. Each city had 1 cluster that held a majority of the neighborhoods with several other clusters only containing one or two neighborhoods. The most common venues in Sacramento were grocery stores, restaurants and parks. In Portland the most common venues were coffee shops, bars, parks and restaurants. 
